java c
SESS0026
Political   Economy   of   European   integration
Introduction
In   1985, the European   Commission (EC) published a White Paper   on   Completing   the   Internal   Market where they proposed 282 specific measures to implement the Single Market   Program      (SMP) (Mayes et al.,   1994). Badinger (2007) argues that these measures   had   strong   effects   on   European Union (EU) manufacturing industries, reducing their markups from 38 to   28%   and increasing their productivity. The paper presents EU membership’s effects on growth, trade, and competitive dynamics in the domestic economy. Then,   it   investigates   the   effects   of   EC’s White Paper on Italy and the UK manufacturing sector and   concludes   that   the   empirical   evidence validates the BE-COMP model, regardless of   whether the increase in   competition was anticipated or   not.
Theoretical framework
EU membership is argued to lead to   an increase   of   imports   and   exports   at   a   lower price   through   the   reciprocal   removal   of   non-discriminatory   and   frictional   barriers, a   medium-run,   but not long-run, increase of   growth due to a better allocation   of   resources   and,   finally,   a   higher consumption at a lower price, mark-ups, and sales   per   firm   due   to   an   increase   in   competition and market   size.With regards to trade, Home country’ participation to the Single Market (SM)   includes the      reciprocal   removal   of   non-discriminatory   and   frictional   barriers. The   removal   of   the   former either increases or decreases Home’s welfare by decreasing goods’ home prices,   increasing total and Partners’ imports and decreasing those from   the rest   of   the world   (RoW).   By assuming neither imperfect competition nor imperfect returns,   when Home enters the   SM, they   will   reciprocally   remove   the   non-discriminatory   tariff   with   their   Partners, while   keeping it on the RoW. As the border fixed price of   the good has increased   for   the Partners,   the   duty-   free access boosts the total exports supplied by   the Partners in   Home   (Smith’s   certitude)   and,   therefore, by shifting down the supply curve,   sets   a new   equilibrium at   a   lower price   and higher quantity. RoW, who now perceives a decrease in the competition price   of   the   good,    decreases their exports (Harberler’s spillover). The new equilibrium   leads   to   an   ambiguous   welfare effect since it is not possible to assess   a   priori whether the   “trade   creation” of liberalisation offsets or not the “trade diversion” caused by discrimination   (Viner’s ambiguity). As opposed to non-discriminatory tariffs, the removal of   frictional barriers is argued to have the same price-quantity effects but to increase welfare as   lower prices   do not   affect   government’srevenue.
Moreover, EU membership increases Home’s medium-run growth through a positive      allocation effect and investment   inflow, but does not   affect   the   long-run   one.   First, by assuming a constant fraction of   capital stock depreciation   and   investment rate,   European   integration leads to a ‘induced capital formation’   as, by making the European resources more   efficiently allocated, it raises output   and, thus,   investment.   This   increase   in   investment,   also known as allocation effect, results in a higher equilibrium   capital   stock   and,   consequently,   higher output and income per worker. However, although growth of   output   increases,   its      effect is temporary due to the diminishing returns of   physical labour being   outstripped by capital depreciation (Solow model).   Second, European integration may also raise   the   investment rate by making investment safer and, therefore, increase capital   stock,   output per   worker   and   medium-run   growth. Third, due   to   constant   marginal   returns   of   knowledge   capital,   joining the SM may lead to technological progress and, therefore, increase   long-run   growth as the inflow of   new investment would not be outstripped by capital   depreciation   (Romer’s model). However, the current literature still provides limited   evidence to   support   the latter   claim.
Finally, due to an increase in market   size   and competition, participating   to   the   SM   leads   to   a   new long-run equilibrium at a lower price   and mark-up   and higher   output   and   sales per   firm   (BE-COMP model). By assuming economies of   scale (downward-sloping average   cost,   flat      and sales-independent marginal cost and zero profits in the long-run),   EU   membership enlarges Home’s market and, by increasing competition, leads to   a lower price   and mark-up.   However, as too many firms are now present   in the   market,   some   fail   due to   negative profits      whereas others survive as they become more efficient. Assuming   the   Union   avoids   perfect   or   partial collusions, state aids or mergers, this industrial restructuring   lasts   until the   exact number of   firms who can break-even remains in the market and, therefore, price,   quantity   and   mark-ups converge to the new long-term equilibrium where profits equal   0.
Italy and   the   UK
By analysing 745 Italian manufacturing   companies between   1982 and   1993, Bottasso   et al.   (2001) investigate whether firms’ productivity and mark-ups were affected by the   SMP   implementation (1988-1993). As Figure   1 shows, the empirical   evidence validates   the BE-   COMP model. First, between the announcement of   the White Paper (1985) and the   SMP   implementation (1988), firms’ productivity grew from 0.005 to   0.015   as   firms   anticipated
White Paper’s effect on increased competition, thus   shifting the BE curve   downwards.   Total   sales and consumption consequently increased by 20% between   1985 and   1990   and   moved   the economy from A to B (Pilat etal., 2006).   Second,   during the   SMP   implementation   (1988-   1992), firms’ mark-ups were reduced by   11%, decreasing from a   17.7-23.4% interval to   a   7.1-12% one. As shown by a shift from   B   to   C,   in   light   of   an   increase   in   total   sales   and,   thus,   competition, firms had to charge a lower price and therefore reduced   their   mark-ups.   Lastly,      despite of   the lack of   clear data (i.e. number of   manufacturing firms between   1985-1995),   a 3% decrease   of   the   share   of   the   Italian   manufacturing   sector   in   total   employment   was registered   after   1992 (Pilat   etal., 2006). Assuming   a   decrease   of   share   of   manufacturing   in total employment suggests a reduction of   manufacturing firms, the   economy   therefore   moved   to the new long-run equilibrium D through   an industrial   restructuring   as   some   firms   became         more efficient whether others failed due to negative profits.   
Figure 1:   White Paper’s anticipated effect in Italy
Griffith (2001) presents a   similar analysis for the UK manufacturing   sector   during   1980-1996   and reaches similar conclusions. Indeed, during the   SMP implementation   (1988-1992),   labour   productivity increased by almost 3%, mark-ups decreased from   18 to   9% whereas   total   sales   and consumption went up by   10% (Pilat etal., 2006). As   SMN’ effects on   competition   and   market size were non-anticipated, the UK manufacturing economy therefore shifted   from A to B to C after   1988 (Figure 2). Moreover, the   share   of   manufacturing   in   total   employment   decreased by 5% between   1990 and   1992, suggesting an industrial restructuring   and   a   shift   of   the economy to the new long-run equilibrium D (Ibid.). However, two   main   differences   between the UK and Italian case can be highlighted. First, UK manufacturing   firms   did   not   anticipate White paper’s effects on competition and, therefore,   they   increased productivity   and total sales only after SMP   implementation   (1987-1992).   The non-anticipation   effect   may   be explained by the strong UK Euroscepticism in the   1980s that made manufacturing firms unsure of   whether they UK would have   joined the SM or not (Startin, 2015).   Second,   productivity rates, markups and total sales   seem to have changed simultaneously   after   1988,   suggesting less rigid stages in the BE-COMP   analysis.   
Figure 2:   White Paper's non anticipated effect in   UK
Conclusion
The paper presented EU membership’s effects on growth, trade, and   competitive dynamics and concluded that EC White Paper’s effects on Italy   and the UK validate   the   BE-COMP model, regardless of   whether the increase in competition was anticipated or not.   Two   main   limitations can be highlighted. First, the UK-Italy BE-COMP modelling is incomplete   as the      number of   foreign manufacturing firms entering the   domestic market was not assessed   due to   lack of   data.   Second, the claim suggesting less rigid   stages in   the UK   economy   after   SMP   implementation cannot be conclusive due to   Griffith’s binary division of   time as   prior-   and   post-SMP-implementation and, therefore, requires further research.
Bibliography
Badinger, H. (2007). Has the EU's single market programme fostered   competition?   Testing   for a Decrease in Mark‐up Ratios in EU Industries.   oxford   Bulletin   of Economics   and   statistics,   69(4), 497-519.
Bottasso, A.,  Sembenelli, A. (2001). Market power, productivity and the EU   Single   Market   Program: Evidence from a panel of   Italian firms. European Economic Review, 45(1),   167-186.
Griffith, R. (2001). Product market competition, efficiency and agency costs: an empirical   analysis (No. 01/12). IFS Working papers.
Mayes, D. and P. Hart (1994) The Single Market   Programme   as   a   Stimulus   to   change:   comparisons between Britain and Germany, Cambridge University Press: Cambridge
Pilat, D., Cimper, A., Olsen, K. B.,  Webb, C.   (2006).   The   changing nature   of   manufacturing in OECD   economies.
Startin, N. (2015). Have we reached a tipping point? The mainstreaming of   Euroscepticism in   the UK. International Political Science Review, 36(3), 311-323.
Q3
Introduction
The main argument of   the paper is twofold. First, Ukraine is not   currently able   to   enter the         Eurozone as they do not meet the monetary convergence criteria due to divergent   medium-      term   inflation   targets   and   National   Bank   of   Ukraine   (NBU)’s   non-complete   independence.         Second, it would not be optimal for Ukraine to   join the Eurozone prior to a more Eurozone- aligned restructure of   their production and trade structures. I rely on   3 main   assumptions.
First, I assume Russian invasion of   Ukraine has not occurred   and,   therefore,   economic judgments are made solely on the assessment of   data   and   events prior   to   2021.   Second,   I exclusively focus on Optimum Currency Area (OCA) criteria   of   labour mobility, production   diversification and openness due to the economic nature of   the piece   and I   do not   consider   their criticisms and more modern views. Third, when I report data   on the   EU,   it must be  代 写SESS0026 Political Economy of European integration 2023SQL
代做程序编程语言 assumed that relevant data on the Eurozone were not found.
Convergence Criteria
Based on the coronation theory, the Maastricht convergence criteria present   5   entry conditions to   join the Eurozone which deal with monetary and fiscal discipline. The   3 monetary convergence   criteria state that   1) the inflation rate   should not   exceed the   average   rate of   the three lowest-inflation-rates EMU countries by more than   1.5%, 2) long-term interest rates should not exceed the average rate of   the three   lowest-inflation-rates EMU   countries by more than 2% and that 3) applicants   should have been members   of   the European   Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM) for at least two years. The 2   fiscal   convergence   criteria   claim that   1) budget deficit should not exceed 3% of   GDP   and 2) public   debt   should not   exceed 60%   of   GDP.
The paper argues that Ukraine does not currently meet the monetary convergence   criteria but      does fulfil the fiscal ones. In 2021, Ukraine registered a   9.4%   inflation, which   is   considerably   higher than the   1.33% average of   the three lowest-inflation-rates countries, Greece,   Malta   and   Portugal (World Bank, 2022a). Even if   one or more countries were   to be   excluded   from   the   analysis due to specific factors that affect their   inflation   (European   Commission, 2008),   it   is   improbable, if   not impossible, that Ukraine would meet criteria   1) as their inflation rate exceeds the 2.4% average Eurozone inflation rate by 7% (World Bank,   2022a).   Moreover,   due to high inflation and, therefore, low international credibility, Ukraine   does not   meet   criteria 2) and 3) as   their 2021   11.34% long-term nominal   interest rates   exceed by   more than   2% the 0.75% long-term nominal interest rates of   Greece, Malta and Portugal   (European   Central Bank (ECB), 2022) as well not being an EMS member for   2+ years.   On   the   other   hand, Ukraine meets the fiscal convergence criteria as, in 2021, their national   debt   represented 48.9 % of   the GDP while their   1.6% budget deficit does not   exceed   3%   of   the   GDP (World Bank, 2022b; World Bank, 2022c).
The   reason   behind   the   monetary   non-suitability   of   Ukraine   is   twofold. First, theNBU presents a 5% medium-term inflation target that differs from   ECB’s   2%   one   and,   therefore,   leads   to   higher   inflation   (Girchenko   et   al., 2020). Second, theNBU   still   needs   to   achieve
complete independence and, therefore, credibility due to political pressure and lack   of    transparency, openness and delegation (Podtserkovnyi et al., 2020).   On the   other hand,   Ukrainian fiscal suitability relies on Ukrainian national debt   criteria that,   according   to Art.   18   of   the   Budget   Code   of   Ukraine, state   that   the   amount   of   debt   should   not   exceed   60%   of   the   GDP (Girchenko et al., 2020). Therefore, fiscal criteria   are met   due   to   symmetry between   European   and   Ukrainian   regulation, while   monetary   ones   are   not   due   toNBU’s   monetary   preferences and non-complete independence.
OCA Theory
I now investigate whether Ukraine would benefit from   joining the Eurozone by assessing the impact of   asymmetric shocks on the Ukrainian economy through 3   economic   OCA   criteria.
The first criteria states that, assuming that capital   is   mobile,   an   OCA   requires   high   labour mobility between countries as it offsets asymmetric shocks’   effects   by   shifting productions factors. Due to their high and flexible labour mobility, Ukraine’s entry   in   the   Eurozone   is argued to mitigate both temporary and permanent asymmetric shocks in the Union. As the current proportion of   Ukrainians who live in the EU   (2.7%) is higher than the labour mobility   of   both   the   EU   (0.6%) and   US   (1.5%) (Smit   etal., 2020; Libanova,   2019), Ukraine’s   entry would significantly increase the average European labour mobility and, therefore,   incentivise   the reallocation of   production factors during asymmetric shocks. Moreover,   due to   highly   flexible Ukrainian labour mobility, both permanent and temporary asymmetric shocks would   be offset as around 65% of   Ukrainian labour   migrants   express their   intention   to return   home      in   the   long   run   while   23% planto   live   in   the   new   country   (Ibid.).
The second criteria argues that dissimilar and non-diversified   production   and trade commodity structures increase the asymmetry of   a shock   as   countries   are   affected   in divergent ways. Due to the lack of   production structure and trade dissimilarity   indexes between Ukraine and the Eurozone, a more qualitative and indirect   approach   is   used.   First,
Ukraine   presents   anon-diversified   production   structure   which   is   highly   dissimilar   to   the   Eurozone’s (Sozanskyy, 2018). The former strongly relies   on the production   of   raw materials   such as food, wood, paper and metallurgical production (Ibid.) while the latter, despite   some         internal divergences, mostly focuses on capital   goods such   as   machines,   tools,   and   equipment   (Botta, 2014).   Second, the trade commodity structure of   Ukraine, which mostly exports   low            processed products such as iron (19.9%), cereals   (18%)   and minerals   (10.7%)   and   imports   mineral   fuels   (17.8%) and   machinery   (11.2%) (Malyarets   etal.,   2021),   differs   from the Eurozone’s one, which trades mostly manufactured goods.   Moreover, as   shown by   Barseghyan et al. (2019), Ukraine presents stronger trade similarities with   Eastern European   countries, showing a trade dissimilarity index of   0.37 with Armenia,   0.33 with   Georgia   and         0.44 with Turkey, compared to EU countries such   as   Latvia   (0.62)   or   Lithuania   (0.63).
Therefore, although conclusive statements cannot be drawn due to   the   lack   of   direct comparative   data, if   Ukraine   joined   the   Eurozone, asymmetric   shocks   are   forecasted   to   be large and frequent due to their dissimilar and non-diversified production and   trade   structures.
Finally, the third criteria claims that a high share   of   economic   activity   devoted   to international trade offsets the importance of   an independent exchange rate as   competition   equalises foreign and domestic goods’ prices. In this regard, Ukraine   and   the Eurozone   are argued to form. an OCA. First, both countries present   a   strong trade   openness, being   the   total   Ukrainian and Eurozone 2021 trade respectively 83 and   90%   of   GDP   (World Bank,   2022d).      Moreover, since the creation of   the Deep and Comprehensive Free   Trade Areas   in   2016,   the      EU has become Ukraine's largest trading partner, representing 39.5% of   their trade, and   Ukraine is among Eurozone’s main trading partners, accounting for   1.2%   of   the   European   trade (European Commission, 2022). Lastly, Ukraine   has also aligned   its   legislation   to   the
EU's in areas such as competition   and technical barriers   and, therefore,   strongly   limited   its   reliance on exchange rate depreciation since 2016 (Girchenko   et al., 2020).
Conclusion
The paper argues that Ukraine cannot currently   join the Eurozone as they   do not   meet   the   monetary criteria and should not prior to a more   Eurozone-aligned   production   and trade   commodity re-structure. Two main limitations are highlighted. First, the lack   of   direct   data   that compare Ukraine’s and Eurozone’s production and trade dissimilarities prevents the   paper from drawing conclusive results on whether the trade diversification   criteria   is met.   Second, the EU, rather than the Eurozone, statistics on labour mobility   and   trade with   Ukraine may lead to non-accurate and slightly misleading conclusions.
Bibliography
Barseghyan, G.,  Baghdasaryan, V. (2019). Optimum currency   area theory:   evidence   from   post-Soviet countries and implications for Eurasian Economic Union. Post-Communist   Economies, 31(3), 301-324.
Botta, A. (2014).   Structural asymmetries at the roots of   the eurozone   crisis:   What's   new   for   industrial policy in the EU?. PSL Quaterly Review,   67(269),   169-216.
European Central Bank, (2022) Long-term interest rate statistics for   EU   Member   States.   Available at:
https://www.ecb.europa.eu/stats/financial_markets_and_interest_rates/long_term_interest_rat   es/html/index.en.html
European Commission, (2014). Convergence Report 2014. Directorate-General for   Economic   and Financial Affairs. Available at:
https://ec.europa.eu/economy_finance/publications/european_economy/2014/pdf/ee4_en.pdf
European Commission (2022) EU trade relations with Ukraine. Facts, figures   and latest
developments. Available   at:https://policy.trade.ec.europa.eu/eu-trade-relationships-country-   and-region/countries-and-regions/ukraine_en
Girchenko, T. D.,   Serdiukova, O. I.,  Gongalo, N. (2020).   Macro-level   comparison   of   the   banking system in Ukraine and Poland. Zeszyty Naukowe Politechniki Poznańskiej.   Organizacja i Zarządzanie.
Libanova, E. (2019). Labour migration from Ukraine: key features,   drivers   and   impact. Economics and Sociology, 12(1),   313-328.Malyarets, L. M., Otenko, V. I., Otenko, I. P.,    Chepeliuk,   M.   (2021).   Assessment   the   development of   the commodity structure а country's exports   and   imports   (case   study   of   Ukraine). Montenegrin Journal of Economics, 17(4), 7-16.
Podtserkovnyi, O.,  Vozniakovska, K. (2020). Ensuring the Central   Bank Discretion   in   Issuing   Stabilization Loans in Times of   Covid-19 Pandemic. Ius Humani, Revista de
Derecho, 9,   65.
Smit,   S., Tacke, T., Lund,   S., Manyika, J.,  Thiel,   L.   (2020). The   future   of   work   in   Europe.   McKinsey Report
Sozanskyy, L. (2018).   Structurale assessment of   the Industry of   Ukraine and
Poland.   Transborder Economics International   Journal on   Transborder Economics, Politics   and Statistics, 3(1),   83-93.
World   Bank, (2022a). Inflation, Consumer   Prices   (annual   %) - Ukraine,   Euro Area.
International Monetary Fund, International Financial   Statistics and data files. Available at:
https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/FP.CPI.TOTL.ZG?locations=UA-XC
World   Bank, (2022b). Central   Government   Debt, total   (%   of   GDP) - Ukraine.   International Monetary Fund, Government Financial Statistics   Yearbook and   data   files. Available   at:
https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/GC.DOD.TOTL.GD.ZS?end=2020locations=UAstar   t=1999
World   Bank, (2022c). Current   Account   Balance   (% of   GDP) - Ukraine. International Monetary Fund, Balance of   Payments Yearbook and data files. Available at:
https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/BN.CAB.XOKA.GD.ZS?contextual=aggregateend=20   21locations=UAstart=2000
World   Bank, (2022c). Trade   (% of   GDP) - Ukraine, Euro   Area. World   Bank   national accounts data and OECD National Accounts Data File. Available at:
https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/NE.TRD.GNFS.ZS?locations=UA-XC

         
加QQ：99515681  WX：codinghelp  Email: 99515681@qq.com
